README.md, before:

# WaffleBot

WaffleBot is a Discord bot that collects voice memos from a channel, combines
them into a single audio file with intro, outro, and interlude music, and
uploads the result to Dropbox/PushPod.

## Overview

![WaffleBot Architecture](static/wafflebot.excalidraw.png)

## Development

1. **Run tests:**

   ```bash
   uv run pytest -v
   ```

## Deployment

WaffleBot can be deployed as a daily automated service using Docker Compose and systemd.

### Prerequisites

- Docker and Docker Compose installed
- systemd (standard on most Linux distributions)
- sudo access for systemd service installation

### Installation

1. **Update the environment variables:**  

   ```bash
   cp .env.example .env
   ```

2. **Install the systemd service and timer:**

   ```bash
   ./install-systemd-scripts.sh
   ```

   This will:
   - Copy the systemd service and timer files to `/etc/systemd/system/`
   - Enable and start the timer
   - Set up daily automated runs overnight

### Manual Control

- **Run manually:**

  ```bash
  docker compose run --build --rm file-downloader
  docker compose run --build --rm audio-mixer
  ```

  or

  ```bash
  ./run-wafflebot.sh
  ```

- **Check service status:**

  ```bash
  systemctl status homelab-run-wafflebot.timer
  ```

- **View logs:**

  ```bash
  journalctl -u homelab-run-wafflebot
  ```

- **Stop the service from running:**

  ```bash
  systemctl stop homelab-run-wafflebot.timer
  ```

Commit message:

refactor: move publish-to-dropbox into a service (#50)

README.md, after:

# WaffleBot

WaffleBot is a Discord bot that collects voice memos from a channel, combines
them into a single audio file with intro, outro, and interlude music, and
uploads the result to Dropbox/PushPod.

## Overview

![WaffleBot Architecture](static/wafflebot.excalidraw.png)

- **file-downloader**: Downloads voice memos from Discord
- **audio-mixer**: Combines memos with music into a podcast audio file
- **publish-to-dropbox**: Publishes the podcast audio to Dropbox with versioned naming ([details](src/publish-podcast-to-dropbox/README.md))

## Development

1. **Run tests:**

   ```bash
   uv run pytest -v
   ```

## Deployment

WaffleBot can be deployed as a daily automated service using Docker Compose and systemd.

### Prerequisites

- Docker and Docker Compose installed
- systemd (standard on most Linux distributions)
- sudo access for systemd service installation

### Installation

1. **Update the environment variables:**  

   ```bash
   cp .env.example .env
   ```

2. **Install the systemd service and timer:**

   ```bash
   ./install-systemd-scripts.sh
   ```

   This will:
   - Copy the systemd service and timer files to `/etc/systemd/system/`
   - Enable and start the timer
   - Set up daily automated runs overnight

### Manual Control

- **Run manually:**

  ```bash
  docker compose run --build --rm file-downloader
  docker compose run --build --rm audio-mixer
  docker compose run --build --rm publish-to-dropbox
  ```

  or

  ```bash
  ./run-wafflebot.sh
  ```

- **Check service status:**

  ```bash
  systemctl status homelab-run-wafflebot.timer
  ```

- **View logs:**

  ```bash
  journalctl -u homelab-run-wafflebot
  ```

- **Stop the service from running:**

  ```bash
  systemctl stop homelab-run-wafflebot.timer
  ```
